feat(collision detection)!: Use a broadphase to make collision detection more efficient (#1252)
flame-engine/flame: doc/flame/collision_detection.md

The collision detection system supports three different types of shapes that you can build hitboxes
from, these shapes are Polygon, Rectangle and Circle. Multiple hitbox can be added to a component to
form the area which can be used to either detect collisions or whether it contains a point or not,
the latter is very useful for accurate gesture detection. The collision detection does not handle
what should happen when two hitboxes collide, so it is up to the user to implement what will happen
when for example two `PositionComponent`s have intersecting hitboxes.

Do note that the built-in collision detection system does not take collisions between two hitboxes
that overshoot each other into account, this could happen when they either move very fast or `update`
being called with a large delta time (for example if your app is not in the foreground). This
behaviour is called tunneling, if you want to read more about it.

Also note that the collision detection system has a limitation that makes it not work properly if
you have certain types of combinations of flips and scales of the ancestors of the hitboxes.

## Mixins

### HasCollisionDetection

> If you want to use collision detection in your game you have to add the `HasCollisionDetection`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you want to use collision detection in your game you have to add the `HasCollisionDetection`
```

mixin to your game so that the game knows that it should use a collision detection system to keep
track of which components that can collide.

Example:

> ```dart

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```dart
```

    } else if (other is YourOtherComponent) {
      //...
    }
  }
}
```

In this example it can be seen how the Dart `is` keyword is used to check which other
`PositionComponent` that your component collided with. The set of points is where the edges of the
hitboxes collided.

Note that the `onCollision` method will be called on both `PositionComponent`s if they have both
implemented the `onCollision` method, and also on both hitboxes. The same goes for the
`onCollisionStart` and `onCollisionEnd` methods, which are called when two components and hitboxes
starts or stops colliding with each other.

When a `PositionComponent` (and hitbox) starts to collide with another `PositionComponent`
both `onCollisionStart` and `onCollision` are called, so if you don't need to do something specific
when a collision starts you only need to override `onCollision`, and vice versa.

If you want to check collisions with the screen edges, as we do in the example above, you can use
the predefined [ScreenCollidable](#screencollidable) class.

## HitboxShape

The `HitboxShape`s are normal components, so you add them to the component that you want to add
hitboxes to just like any other component:

> `component.add(HitboxRectangle());`

Reviewer: Would still put this in a code block personally

# Collision detection

Collision detection is needed in most games to detect and act upon two components intersecting each
other. For example an arrow hitting an enemy or the player picking up a coin.

In most collision detection systems you use something called hitboxes to create more precise
bounding boxes of your components. In Flame the hitboxes are areas of the component that can react

> to collisions (and make [gesture input](inputs/gesture-input.md#GestureHitboxes) more accurate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to collisions.
```
The mentions of gestures distracts from the main idea of the document here (the reader now feels like they need to go and read what "gesture input" is).

Author: I think it is important to give the connection to the reader here though, and it's just a parenthesis.

The collision detection system supports three different types of shapes that you can build hitboxes

> from, these shapes are Polygon, Rectangle and Circle. Multiple hitbox can be added to a component to

Author: `CollisionPassthrough` can be used for this, but I created `CompositeHitbox` to help with this too now.

when for example two `PositionComponent`s have intersecting hitboxes.

Do note that the built-in collision detection system does not take collisions between two hitboxes
that overshoot each other into account, this could happen when they either move very fast or `update`
being called with a large delta time (for example if your app is not in the foreground). This
behaviour is called tunneling, if you want to read more about it.

Also note that the collision detection system has a limitation that makes it not work properly if
you have certain types of combinations of flips and scales of the ancestors of the hitboxes.

## Mixins

### HasCollisionDetection

If you want to use collision detection in your game you have to add the `HasCollisionDetection`
mixin to your game so that the game knows that it should use a collision detection system to keep
track of which components that can collide.

Example:

```dart
class MyGame extends FlameGame with HasCollisionDetection {
  // ...
}
```

Now when you add `HitboxShape`s to components that are then added to the game, they will
automatically be checked for collisions.

> ### CollisionCallbacks

Reviewer 2: This used to be called `Collidable`, isn't it? Do you think this new name is better? I kinda liked how a component could be "Tappable", "Draggable", "Collidable".

Author: It is quite different though, previously you had to add the `Collidable` mixin for the collision detection to work, now you only have to add it if you need to act on the callbacks, hence the name.

To react to a collision you should add the `CollisionCallbacks` mixin to your component.
Example:

```dart
class MyCollidable extends PositionComponent with CollisionCallbacks {
  @override

>   void onCollision(Set<Vector2> points, PositionComponent other) {

Reviewer 2: `onCollisionStart`?

Also: I wonder if we should wrap these into an "Event" object, similar to how we have events for taps, drags, key presses, and so on.

    if (other is ScreenCollidable) {
      //...
    } else if (other is YourOtherComponent) {
      //...
    }
  }

  @override
  void onCollisionEnd(PositionComponent other) {
    if (other is ScreenCollidable) {
      //...
    } else if (other is YourOtherComponent) {
      //...
    }
  }
}
```

> In this example it can be seen how the Dart `is` keyword is used to check which other
> `PositionComponent` that your component collided with. The set of points is where the edges of the
> hitboxes collided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example we use Dart's `is` keyword to check what kind of component we collided with. The set of points is where the edges of the
hitboxes collided.
```

# Collision detection

> 

Author: Better now?

> 

Reviewer 2: :+1:

The collision detection system supports three different types of shapes that you can build hitboxes
from, these shapes are Polygon, Rectangle and Circle. Multiple hitbox can be added to a component to
form the area which can be used to either detect collisions or whether it contains a point or not,
the latter is very useful for accurate gesture detection. The collision detection does not handle
what should happen when two hitboxes collide, so it is up to the user to implement what will happen
when for example two `PositionComponent`s have intersecting hitboxes.

Do note that the built-in collision detection system does not take collisions between two hitboxes
that overshoot each other into account, this could happen when they either move too fast or `update`
being called with a large delta time (for example if your app is not in the foreground). This
behaviour is called tunneling, if you want to read more about it.

Also note that the collision detection system has a limitation that makes it not work properly if
you have certain types of combinations of flips and scales of the ancestors of the hitboxes.

> ## Adding hitboxes

Author: Done

The `HitboxShape`s are normal components, so you add them to the component that you want to add
hitboxes to just like any other component:

`component.add(HitboxRectangle());`

If you don't add any arguments to the hitbox, like above, the hitbox will try to fill its parent as
much as possible. Except for having the hitboxes trying to fill their parents, there are two ways to
initiate hitboxes and it is with the normal constructor where you define the hitbox by itself, with
a size and a position etc. The other way is to use the `fromNormals` constructor which defines the
hitbox in relation to the size of its parent. 

You can read more about how the different shapes (and hitboxes) are defined in the
[](#ShapeComponents) section.

Remember that you can add as many `HitboxShape`s as you want to your `PositionComponent` to make up
more complex areas. For example a snowman with a hat could be represented by three `HitboxCircle`s
and two `HitboxRectangle`s as its hat.

## Mixins

> ### GestureHitboxes

Author: The whole document should maybe have another name, since the `GestureHitboxes` are dependant on hitboxes I think it fits in here, but maybe it should be under the gestures section and link to here instead.

> ### GestureHitboxes

Author: Moved it to `gesture-input.md`.

object if needed.

## Comparison to Forge2D

If you want to have a full-blown physics engine in your game we recommend that you use
Forge2D by adding [flame_forge2d](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame_forge2d) as a dependency.
But if you have a simpler use-case and just want to check for collisions of components and improve
the accuracy of gestures, Flame's built-in collision detection will serve you very well.

If you have the following needs you should at least consider to use
[Forge2D](https://github.com/flame-engine/forge2d):
- Interacting realistic forces
- Particle systems that can interact with other bodies
- Joints between bodies

It is a good idea to just use the Flame collision detection system if you on the other hand only
need some of the following things (since it is simpler to not involve Forge2D):
- The ability to act on some of your components colliding
- The ability to act on your components colliding with the screen boundaries
- Complex shapes to act as a hitbox for your component so that gestures will be more accurate
- Hitboxes that can tell what part of a component that collided with something

> ## Broad phase

Reviewer: Would it make sense to move this one up? So before the comparison with forge2d?

### HitboxPolygon

It should be noted that if you want to use collision detection or `containsPoint` on the `Polygon`,
the polygon needs to be convex. So always use convex polygons or you will most likely run into
problems if you don't really know what you are doing. It should also be noted that you should always
define the vertices in your polygon in a counter-clockwise order.

The other hitbox shapes don't have any mandatory constructor, that is because they can have a
default calculated from the size of the collidable that they are attached to, but since a
polygon can be made in an infinite number of ways inside of a bounding box you have to add the
definition in the constructor for this shape.

The `HitboxPolygon` has the same constructors as the ()[#PolygonComponent], see that section for
documentation regarding those.

### HitboxRectangle

The `HitboxRectangle` has the same constructors as the ()[#RectangleComponent], see that section
for documentation regarding those.

### HitboxCircle

The `HitboxCircle` has the same constructors as the ()[#CircleComponent], see that section for
documentation regarding those.

> ## ShapeComponents

Author: Moved this section to `components.md`
